XSokoban 3.3c
-------------

This distribution
contains all the files to compile and run the game,
the original 50 sokoban screen files, 40 additional screen files
gleaned from various public domain versions of sokoban, and a manual
page that explains how the game works.


    Installation
    Credits
    Fixes, Bug Reports, and Modifications
    Redistribution
    Play Safely!
    NO WARRANTY!


Installation


    Edit the header file config.h to define the
    appropriate paths and options for your system.  These defines
    should be checked carefully to make sure they are correct. 


	
	You can compile xsokoban in either WWW mode or local mode.
	Where it stores scores depends on the mode. The mode is
	controlled by the WWW option; see "config.h" for
	more details.

    
	If compiling in WWW mode, make sure you change the variable
	HERE to refer to your location! 


Do one of the following (A,B, or C) to produce a Makefile:

  
      A. (Easy) Run the script "configure" to produce the include file
	 "config_local.h" and a Makefile. By default, the gnu C compiler
	 is used to build; if you want to use "cc", do

	    configure --with-CC=cc

	 instead.

 
      B. OR: Edit "config_local.h" by hand, and use "xmkmf" to
        produce a Makefile from the Imakefile provided.
	
  
      C. OR: Edit "config_local.h" and "Makefile" by hand to set the
        compiler and compiler flags correctly and select the right
	libraries to compile with. 
    

	If you want to have the game run in color, you will need the
	XPM library. In this case, make sure that if you used options B
	or C, the variable EXTRA_INCLUDES points to the directory
	containing "xpm.h", and that EXTRA_LIBRARIES references the
	directory containing the library "libXpm.a". 

	Last time I checked, XPM could be obtained by FTP from
	export.lcs.mit.edu:contrib/libraries. Make sure your version of
	XPM is up to date. The current pixmaps definitely work with
	versions 3.2g and 3.3, but not with version 2. They should work
	with version 3.4, too.

	If the xsokoban window doesn't fit on your screen, the default
	pixmaps may be too large. This is a problem if the vertical
	height is less than about 800 pixels. In this case, try using
	the pixmaps in bitmaps/36/ by changing the variable "BITPATH"
	to point there.


    Compile by typing "make".  If something goes wrong, and you can track
    down an error, send me a bug report (including what changes you needed
    to make, and I will see about fixing it for later distributions). 

    Some systems have non-ANSI X header files, and you will need to
    turn off function prototypes in those headers, or get better header
    files.  You will know this is happening if reams of errors start
    popping up in "Xlib.h" 


    Play the game by typing "xsokoban". If it complains about not being
    able to read the scorefile, create one with "xsokoban -c". If this
    doesn't work, it is probably because you need to create the score
    directory. See config.h.


    Set ROOTDIR to the desired final location for the xsokoban
    data files, and rebuild.  Install the game by typing "make install" or by
    manually copying the executable. Install the directories screens/,
    scores/, bitmaps/, and saves/ under ROOTDIR.



Credits

    Unknown Hacker - Original curses(1) implementation.
    Joseph L. Traub - X windows interface.
    Kevin Solie - simultaneously developed X implementation (merged in).
    Mark Linderman, Christos Zoulas - Mouse code (added to Solie's version).
    Andrew Myers - Improved mouse UI, score ranking, WWW and color support

Fixes, Bug Reports, and Modifications

    If you make any changes to this program, fix any bugs, add any neat
    features, or whatever, please send mail to andru@lcs.mit.edu
    so that I can add them in to the newest release.

Redistribution

    XSokoban is distributed in the public domain and may be freely
    redistributed. The standard anon FTP distribution site is

    ftp.pmg.lcs.mit.edu:pub/xsokoban.

    The WWW xsokoban home page is 

    http://xsokoban.lcs.mit.edu/xsokoban.html

Play Safely!
    XSokoban is an addictive and time-consuming game. Like any other
    computer game, if played for long periods of time, xsokoban can put
    stress on the tendons and nerves in your arm, causing injury. The
    injury may not cause pain until it is advanced. Take breaks. Make
    sure your computer setup is ergonomic. Use the user interface
    intelligently.

NO WARRANTY!

    As free software, XSokoban comes with absolutely no warranty. 
    In no event will Andrew Myers or any other party be liable to 
    you for damages.

Andrew Myers
andru@lcs.mit.edu
